sooner or later we always have to buy a
replacement car now whether it's a new
car a used car whether it's a truck or a
van or passenger car no matter what it
is one of the most important things that
you have to do is a road test and before
you do that road test you want to do a
walk around the vehicle you're looking
for obvious things like paint overspray
under the hood and various things that
are well they may not be positioned
right and stuff like that once you get
all of that done if the car passes it's
time for a road test once you've done
your walk-around and if you find no
problems get in the car and start
checking things for comfort things like
the seat belt can you easily reach it
can you buckle it easily and does it fit
properly then look at things like the
rearview mirror can you adjust it is the
visibility good how about the pedals can
you get the seat in a position where you
can easily reach the pedals the big
thing in here is to make sure that all
of the ergonomics all of the things that
you use on a daily basis the visibility
and so on that it all matches you then
if it does time for a road test on your
road test you want to drive under as
many conditions as you possibly can that
mimic what you do in your normal driving
situations in other words you want to
drive
and highway if that's what you primarily
do but you also want to mix you always
want to drive the vehicle at low speeds
as well as high speeds you want some
smooth roads you want some rough roads
you want to make sure that under just
about any condition that you can find
that the car feels good to you now one
of the things you don't want to do is
you don't want to go on one of those
pre-programmed courses that the
salesperson wants to take you on make up
your own and if need be why figure out a
course before you even go to the
dealership now another thing that you
want is that you want to go to maybe a
parking garage where you can park nose
in and back out and see how it feels to
maneuver in tight places also go onto a
side street and parallel park the
vehicle because some cars are much
easier to parallel park than others on
through all of this you want to make
sure of how the car feels how it
accelerates in traffic how your
visibility is how all of the ergonomics
of the vehicle are how they they work
out
can you reach everything can you see
everything are the seats comfortable do
the various controls work smoothly and
so on and remember one thing that there
are lots of cars new cars use guys
doesn't make any difference there are
lots of them out there so if this is not
the car for you well don't settle look
for the one that is correct and if you
have a question or comment drop me a
line right here at motorWeek
you